So the next category is another infamous
topic in JavaScript, this Keyword.
So, the value of the this Keyword
depends on where we use it.
In the global context, the value of
the this Keyword is the global object,
provided that we aren't using useStrict,
so not strictMode or inModule.
In a regular function,
the value of the this Keyword is the
object on which the function is invoked.
So here you see that we have object and
then logThis, and
then first we just invoke
logThis on the window object.
So in that case,
this points to the window.
And the second one,
we invoke it on the object or the object.
[LAUGH] So in that case, it points to that
object because that's the object on which
that function was invoked.
Then we have Arrow Functions and
they don't have their own this value.
So the value of this Keyword in an arrow
function is determined by the lexical
environment in which the arrow
function was defined.
So in this case, we have that logThis
arrow function which It also logThis, but
that error function was
defined on the global object,
which in browsers is window.
So even though we invoke it on the object,
that doesn't matter, it didn't matter for
regular function, but for
arrow function, the value of this is
the lexical environment in which the arrow
function was defined and not invoked.
So that's just an important
difference to remember.
Then, we have classes.
So if we use this keyword in a constructor
function or any methods in a class,
then it's the value of
the newly created instance.
So in this case, we have two
instances of user1 and user2 and
we invoke getThis on it.
So that this keyword in user1 to
getThis points to that instance,
you User1 and for user2,
it points to the instance user2.
And then we have strict mode.
So this is just similar
to what we just saw.
So in that case, if we just invoke it, not
on an object, but just kind of standalone,
it won't default to that
global object that we saw.
So it won't be window, but
that in that case it'll be undefined.
And the strict mode is also modules.
So if you're using ESM,
this will be undefined.
And event handlers.
This keyword is the element that received
the events in case you're using
a regular function which we are here.
And then we can use either oops,
sorry, call, bind, or apply.
And that allows us to kind of
explicitly tell JavaScript like, hey,
this is what this keyword should point to.
So with call, it calls that
function with a given this value.
So in the first one,
we say, greet.call and
make sure that this points to
the object that we pass to it.
So it's the object with the username John.
Then we have greet.bind, which creates
a new function, so it doesn't invoke yet,
it just creates a new function objection
with a specified this value and
also optional initial arguments if you
want, but we don't have that here.
So again, we have that object
with (username: "John" ), and
applies pretty much the same as call,
but we can actually pass in array instead
of just a single object for the arguments.
So in this case, that's text.
So text will be, hi there,
instead of welcome.
All right, so this is different
in just like this keyword,
there's not one single explanation for it.
It really depends on how
you're using the this keyword,
which is obviously what I'll
be creating questions about.
So question 11, what gets logged?
So we have a regular function logThis.
Then we have an object that
contains the logThis property.
A logThis two method that returns
a logThis invocation, and
then a logThis three method that
returns the object logThis invocation.
So Well this lock object window Object
Object Object Object window object object.
[LAUGH] We know that objects
are three times window.
So just keep in mind we are working
with regular functions and
there's just one thing that you
have to remember in that case.
[LAUGH] All right,
and the right answer is A,
it's object window object.
So first we call or
we call logThis on object.
And again, it's a regular function, so
it depends on the object that calls
the function, in this case it's object.
Cuz even though it is a property, so we're
setting the logThis property on objects.
Well we're not calling
logThis in that method,
it's just a reference to that function.
So we're calling logThis on object,
it's a regular function so
this points to that object.
Then we have logThis2, and we
are calling that function on object, but
within that function we're
just calling it independently.
We're not saying like object.logThis,
it's just It's just logThis.
So in that case, it defaults back
to that global, global this,
which in this case is window if
we are using it in a browser.
And then with logThis3, yeah,
we are invoking that logThis3 on object.
That doesn't matter, but within logThis3,
we are calling logThis on object.
So again that this keyword will
point to the object on which that
method was invoked, so
that's object again.
Make sense?
Perfect, in that case we
go to the next question.
I forgot that I had all this which
is pretty similar but Question 12,
what will the this keyword refer to for
each invocation?
So we have object8 with a regular foo
method and an arrow function bar.
Then we have object b with foo
that points to object a.foo.
We're not invoking it, we're just creating
a reference to that same function object.
We have a bar that's an arrow function,
and a regular boz, baz,
whatever function that
invokes objectA.foo.
And then what we're
logging is objectB.foo,
objectB.bar, and objectB.baz, whatever.
So yeah, so only objectA,
three times objectB,
or we'll bar point to Window?
All right, so the right answer here is E,
it's object B window object A.
So first we're invoking foo on object B,
and foo points to a reference to
objectA.foo, but again we're not
invoking it on the objectB foo method.
We're just kind of like creating
a reference to the same function object,
the same that we just saw, but
we're invoking it on objectB, right?
We're creating that lexical
environment for objectB.
And it's a regular function, so
this points to the object that invoked it,
doesn't matter where it was Create it,
so it's object b.
Does it go down?
And then we have object b.bar,
which is an arrow function.
So now on bar, we are invoking object
a.bar, which is also an arrow function.
So it doesn't matter where it is,
we don't care about the object that
invoked it because it's an arrow function.
So it's just about the lexical
environment in which it was defined,
which in this case case
is the window object.
And then here we invoke object B,
Bas, whatever.
And then that one invokes objecta.foo.
And that's all we care about.
We care about the invocation of foo and
that's on the object A,
because this is a regular method and
that logs at this and
we invoked in an object A,
so this points to object A.
Makes sense?
Any questions?
Perfect, yes, you're not done with
this yet, because question 13,
what gets logged?
We again have the regular
logThis function.
We have obj1,
that's going to reference to logThis.
We have bar that's an arrow function
that invokes it as a regular function.
We have bars, we have trucks, [LAUGH] And
then we have logThis.call, then really
all we're doing is we're creating a new
object2, we're spreading object1.
And then we also add a new foo2 method
that is an arrow function that invokes
object1 foo, which is that
logThis reference to logThis.
And that for
in loop doesn't matter too much,
all we're doing here is we're only
invoking the properties in object2.
So what would that log would it be only
window yeah I'm not gonna say all of them,
but just imagine we're invoking
all the properties in object2.
Which is pretty much all the properties
in object1 plus that foo2 method.
>> Someone in chat just said,
my brain hurts.
[LAUGH]
>> Yeah, mine too.
[LAUGH] All righty, so
the right answer is C.
It's object2, window, window,
object2, and object1.
So first, so
this is essentially the object2
object that we just created, right?
So we copy the properties from object1 and
then we added a foo2 method.
This is just how I like to visualize it.
Someone calling foo,
we're calling logThis, but
that's just a reference to
the logThis function object.
So we're calling it an object2.
It's a regular function.
So this points to object2.
Then bar is in an arrow function and
that doesn't matter because we're
invoking it within that arrow function.
We're not invoking it
on a specific object.
And that's all that this cares about is
where was this regular function invoked.
Nowhere, so
it defaults to the global this, so window.
Same for the next method.
We're invoking it kind
of just stand alone.
So it, again,
just points to window, global this.
And then the next method, we're calling
logThis, or we're using logThis, and
we're using .call.
And as you remember we can use .call
to automatically invoke a function with
a specified this method.
And, in this case we are calling
the regular function Clarks on object2.
So in that case we are saying, this refers
to this of that of the Coax method.
We call that as a regular
function on object2.
So within that environment,
within that lexical environment,
this points to object2.
And so that means that if we're using
this Keyword within the Cux method,
it points to object2, and
we're using that one to call logThis,
with the specified this value.
So that's object2.
Hope that made some sense.
Because, I'll show you in a second.
And then the last one foo2,
we are calling foo2 on object1.
So we're calling a regular
function on an object.
So that just points to the object
that invoked it, object1.
Makes sense somewhat?
Good.
I think this is the last one, I hope.
So we have the regular logThis again,
we have logThis, we have logThis in arrow,
we have logThis nested.
And we're invoking logThis,
logThis in arrow, and logThis nested.
What gets logged?
And the right answer to this one is A,
its object, window, object.
So first, what we have is we can
have that regular logThis method.
We're not calling it it's just
a reference to the function object.
So we're calling it on object.
Object is what creates the lexical
environment for the function.
So in that case, this points to object.
Then we call logThisInArrow.
We're calling it on object,
but it's an arrow function.
We don't care who calls it.
With an arrow function,
we care about where it's defined, or
the lexical environment
in which it's defined.
And in this case,
the lexical environment is window.
So this points to window for
logThisInArrow.
Now we have locked this nested, logThis
nested itself is a regular function.
So within that entire function body
this points to object because we call it
an object, but then the nested function
loThis and it's an arrow function.
So in that case, this points to
the lexical environment in which it was
defined, which in this case is
the environment of logThis nested.
So there, this points to object
because that's a regular method.
And we're using the this value of
logThis nested within nested function,
because it just goes down
that environment chain.
So I'm calling that and points to object.
I hope that makes some sense.
So if we were to call console
log on the line before,
const nestedFunc,
it would have logged object,
cuz that's just what this points to
in that regular method on object.
And we're pretty much just reusing
that same this reference in that arrow
function, which is why
it points to object.
Make sense?
[LAUGH]
>> Why is it that even though it's it's
an arrow function that it doesn't,
>> Because with
arrow function this points to the lexical
environment in which it was defined.
And in this case this nested func
function was defined within the lexical
environments of logThis nested.
It's really just the function object of
arrow functions doesn't have its own dis
value, but the function object of regular
functions does have its own dis value.
So when we try to access
this in an arrow function,
it's like,
I can't find it on my own function object.
So I'll go down the environment chain,
what we just saw previously, and there
it does have it in it's environment record
for the environment that it points to.
Just keep in mind that this keyword is
always different depending on what it
like, are we calling regular function and
arrow function to class, an event handler.
And then how are we calling
it who was calling it?
Anyway, okay, this is the last one.
Surely this is the last
one what one second.
It is yes,
okay the very last this this question.
So we began we have object with logThis,
logThis, logThis2,
regular function with
logThis enter that logThis.
And we have logThis enter with apply,
and then we have logThis and
logThis3 that we deconstruct from object.
We call logThis and
logThis2 on the window object.
And then we have logThis and
logThis2 on the object, object.
So what would it log?
Would it be four times Window?
Window object, window object.
You can read the rest.
All right, so the right answer is E.
It's window, window, object, object.
So first, we're calling logThis.
It's a regular function again.
So we're calling logThis that we just
deconstructed on the window object.
It doesn't matter that it was defined on
object and that we then deconstructed it,
doesn't matter because we're invoking
it on the global object on window.
So this points to Window.
Same for this too,
well in that case we return apply, so
it calls that function with a specified
object that this should point to.
But within logThis, this points
to the object that invoked it, so
the window object.
So that's still window.
And then the same applies to the other
two calls on object logThis.
Well in that case we're calling out
an object, it's a regular method, so
this points to the object
that called it object.
And with logThis, this keyword within
logThis2 points to the object.
If we use that value to like
apply that to logThis inner.
So we're saying all right, that object
that this should point to in logThis inner
is the same this as the logThis2 which
is object because that's what called it.
Yes, what?
>> Could you review one
more time how .this and
.then get evaluated under
a named function and
an object as opposed to
an anonymous function?
>> This and then, wait, sorry.
Could you, I'm gonna just show in.
Well, it doesn't matter if it's
an anonymous function or not.
It matters if it's an arrow function or
regular function.
I'm not sure if that's the question.
If this was logThis arrow, then it doesn't
matter if we're calling it as an object,
because it's an arrow function.
They don't care about who called it.
They only care about where it's defined.
Now, of course, an object itself
doesn't have a lexical environment.
The lexical environment is the global
lexical environment that we just saw with
closures and stuff.
Object is just, in that case,
a property on the declarative record, and
that contains a reference
to the function object.
An arrow function object, which doesn't
have its own this value, so it needs
to get the this value from the lexical
environment, which in this case is.
So global this global this does which
is essentially the same as like this
global this.
It just goes down the environment chain,
if that makes sense.